See,
there was concern that the Japanese might be able
to start some diseases against livestock which
were highly contagious and easily transmitted
diseases that could spread across the country and
be very damaging to U.S. and Canadian food supply.
That was one of the main reasons for our program on
Rinderpest in Canada at War Disease Control
Station. During that period of time in 42 and 43,
the Japanese launched literally hundreds of hot
air balloons in Japan, which because of
prevailing air currents at about 60,000 feet were
able to fly over to the United States and Canada on
their own. In very large numbers they came. And we
were all concerned that they might load these with
contagious disease materials which when they
landed here in the United States and Canada would
be picked up by livestock and spread all over the
country. But fortunately the security was so good
that the Japanese never learned that their
balloons were getting here, that they were
launching in Japan during that time period. So
though there were lots of them came, and we had US
and Canadian aircraft out beating these balloons
down, and then men picking up material from them
and bringing them to our lab, which we tested in
cattle and livestock. We never picked up a hot
disease from any of that material. What did they
send? Well, they sent a few of these hand grenades
and bombs over, which would explode when they were
touched by people. And there were just a few people
killed with these. But for the most part, they
continued to send them because they used them as a
propaganda tool for their munitions plants in
Japan. They'd have a big gathering and launch a lot
of these balloons and tell their workers that they
were sending these over there to wipe out the
Canadians and the US citizens, and launch a lot of
them. But they didn't know they were getting here,
but they were. They were coming. It's surprising
that they didn't send any disease, because they
were working on these things. That's right, they
were. And they could have sent them, but Not
thinking they were getting here, they didn't load
them, except with a few little bombs and things. I
was wondering about another thing, too. And that
is, I forgot to ask you about this when we were
talking earlier about it. We were talking about
the relationships with government. I was
wondering about the relationship that you and the
Institute had with the Colombian government. How
did that work? Well, it worked very well. And we had
actually very little to do with it, because that
had been well established by the Rockefeller
Foundation. They had a very good liaison with the
Colombian government. And many of the higher
Colombian officials had received graduate
training in the United States with scholarships
provided by the Rockefeller Foundation. So they
were in an excellent standing with Rockefeller
and accepted us as part of that overall team. So we
had no problems there. Did a lot of the technicians
and the researchers, did a lot of them know
Spanish? Yes, that's right. So there was a good
communication between the UN and the Colombian
veterinarians. And we usually had some Colombian
veterinarians and technicians working with us
down there. So it was a joint effort. How were the
facilities? They were excellent. They were
provided really by the Rockefeller Foundation.
They furnished us with excellent labs both in
Bogota and down in Cali. And it was a good
arrangement, really, because we would typically
have a Colombian veterinarian who was our field
man that would make contacts with livestock
producers and people with whom we would work in the
field. For example, they would make the
arrangements for us to go out and vaccinate a
year's crop of calves for a vaccination trial. and
work it all out, and we'd go do the work and follow
through with them, and the farmer would benefit,
and the local government would benefit from it,
and everybody would be happy, and we weren't so
directly involved with local people, you see,
because of that, which made it easy for us. Sure,
you didn't have to set things up. And how did the
people, the farmers or the peasants, how did they
respond to you? Well, there was never any problem.
We got along very well. They were probably very
happy to see you coming. Did you ever do any work
with the Peace Corps? No. No, I never did. Because
the Peace Corps must have, I'm sure they were in
Columbia at that time. Yes, they were. And they
must have been doing some similar type work,
vaccinations, building things. Most of their
efforts were with people rather than with
livestock, so we didn't have. You know, we knew
about their presence and would meet them from time
to time, but we didn't have much to do with it. Why'd
you retire? Well, because I became 67 years old,
and the university retired everybody at that time
when they were 65 or thereabouts, you see, and I
stayed on two more years. Now I think they'll let
you stay on to age 70, but they didn't at that time.
Yeah, I would have been happy to stay on for quite a
few more years because I have good health and good
shape. No reason not to. In fact, I've been busier
in many ways since I left out there than I was
before. Which brings me to another question. What
have you been doing since retirement? Well, my son
and I started an insulation business here in town
in 1977. And we're still going strong with that.
What's the name of it? Insulate. Oh, really?
That's your company? Yeah, that's my company. And
my son is over there. Does he run it, then, on the
day-to-day business? Yeah, and I spend a lot of
time over there, too. I still do. I kept the books
for the first two and a half years, using a little of
my accounting training from Idaho. And in the
meantime, I've bought 15 rent houses here in town.
No kidding. And I maintain those myself, and my
wife and I do. between the rent houses and the
insulation business and a little bit of
occasional consulting work, plus a book of poems
and making chimes and some land out in the country
to play with. I don't like for things to do. And I've
been director of the Bank of A&M since 1967. Serve
on some committees up there. Before that, from
about 67 to 80,
I was a third owner of the ornamental castings
company out here that makes ornamental things. My
son was out there until he shifted over to these
other things. Now, why'd you shift to Enslade?
Well, Al got tired of working in that job and wanted
to do something more on his own. So he left out there
and I sold my most of my stock from ornamental
casting. He started his insulation business. It
was really the first one in town that had the first
energy store in town where we sold stoves and solar
screens and a lot of things along with the
insulation work. Now it's become more
competitive. There are about a half a dozen
operations in town now. How's business been?
Well, it's slacked off a bit for that reason, and so
now Al is interested in selling it and doing
something else to get out of it. He'd like to get in
some other thing. But we've never lacked for
things to do. Now, is there something else that
I've missed that we should talk about as far as the
Institute is concerned? I don't really think so.
I don't know best how to handle this problem of its
current status out there. I don't want to be unfair
to anybody. I don't like to downgrade somebody
just because I don't agree with what they've done.
I just hope that that administrative level can be
squared away and made to realize that there's an
opportunity there that we should all take
advantage of. So, I'll need to edit that part of
this thing pretty carefully. Well, thank you very
much for this interview and we'll come out and
we'll get...
¶¶
John Philip Sousa's Stars and Stripes Forever.
And this Naval Academy graduate who sits to my left
was at attention during that one. Oh, I was ready to
march. Ready to go. Going to sign up and go back in,
huh? Halftime. The University of Arkansas band
has concluded its halftime presentation.
And out on the field once more.
And
the Saints go marching in the Razorback band as the
Arkansas Razorback football team gets back on the
field ready to initiate
Lou Holtz and his crowd seventeen and three in the
last couple of years and the Aggies are making
their reappearance to
A&M scored the first touchdown of the ballgame
sixty seven yard kickoff return set it up and
here's the touchdown and Robert Belcher the
fullback on the straight inside power play good
blocking pattern up front he cuts back into that
little crease and gets into the end zone. Extra
point by Tony Franklin. Good. Aggies led 7-0. Then
a fumble recovery by Arkansas. 27 yards out. Set up
this touchdown run by Ron Kalkagny. Ron Kalkagny
is a super runner of the option play. And near the
goal line, he's instructed not to pitch it unless
he has to. And he follows a good blocking pattern up
front and drives straight into the end zone.
Tremendous execution of the power option keeper.
That extra point good tied the score seven seven
ish or done is has towed two field goals. That's the
difference right now. Thirteen seven as the
options are being discussed to begin the second
half and Arkansas will receive the second half
kickoff
and they are calling the hogs here in Arkansas
right now.
And one more time man if I were a hog I'd
come. Tony Franklin leads his team in scoring with
fifty three points. He's not a bad kicker. He has
all or part of 16 NCAA records. And. Hiram Wright
Junior from Topeka Kansas number 20 back to.
received the kick. He is the middleman of three.
James Talbert and Gary Woods are also back there.
Thomas Brown, who usually does the kick return
chores for Arkansas, out with a bruised shoulder.
Tony Franklin. He's going to have to make an
adjustment. He's going to have to put another shoe
on in the NFL. He says he's been practicing with the
extra shoe and it doesn't bother him. He just
prefers kicking barefoot. Here's Hiram Wright at
the 25. Gets out of attack by Doug Carr, but boom.
Baldwin makes the stuff. Keith Baldwin
will be thinking about that one after the game.
Special teams guys are really a certain breed.
This game was very even through the first 15
minutes of play but Arkansas had seven first downs
in the second quarter. None for the Aggies and
they've got a first down 10 now at their own twenty
nine yard line Cal Cagney option right side that
picks up four yards. Reset the offensive
backfield for the University of Arkansas. The
senior quarterback is Ron Calcagna, number 18.
Jerry Eckwood and Ben Collins in the offensive
backfield with him. And up front, an offensive
line that now includes Burt Locke, Chuck Herman,
Mike Burlingame, George Stewart, Greg Kalenda,
and the tight end Charles Clay. The wide receivers
are Robert Farrell and Gary Stiggers, but now
Donnie Bobo has come in. He is wide to the right
side. It's second down and five. left side out of
the tackle post for the first down be about a foot
short I believe defensively for Texas A&M front
for Jacob Green Eugene Sanders Gary Milligan and
James Zachary the linebackers are Floyd Randall
Doug Carr and Mike Little the cornerbacks Dan
Davis who is playing in the spot normally occupied
by Darryl Smith and Elroy Steen and the safeties
are Kenneth Taylor and Carl Grulich and they'll
bring the stick out and see if Ben Collins picked up
enough for the first down 10.
Well I said a put short it's about eight or 10
inches. Third down Arkansas with a 13 7 lead as we
get underway. Berman question Ben Martin from War
Memorial Stadium in Little Rock facility third
down conversions Arkansas five out of eight.
That's a very respectable any time you go over five
hundred third and one officially. Tim Adams tied
to the right side. Quarterback keeper by Cal
Cagney went over the wedge between his center and
right guard. And appeared to pick up enough for the
first down. The Aggies are really stacked in
there. They had four where the Hogs had three. But
Cal Cagney can find any little bit of daylight.
First down, Tim. Robert Farrell brings the play
in. You see him there, number 83, just getting into
the huddle. And now Farrell breaks and comes wide
to the right side. in the company of Donnie Bobo,
number 44. First down, 10. Arkansas, 13.34 to go
third quarter. And they lead 13-7. Cal Cagney
looks back to his left, has a lot of time, and
overthrows it. Steen is down there, dropped by
Steen and Carl Gerlich. The Aggies have only five
interceptions all year. They got two of them
against SMU two weeks ago. At that time, Carl
Gerlich and Elroy Steen were battling for the
ball. Now, this is a good call on first down. They
run the option fake to the right, drop by Cal
Cagney, throws it at the post, but the defenders
are both right there. It's one of those things,
Alphonse Gaston, and the ball bounces free. Big
collision by two defenders. So that sets up a
second down 10. Arkansas at their own 39. Well,
officially the 40-yard line. Left side, pitch
out. Ben Collins looks for a block from Kalenda. He
gets the block from Kalenda, but Kenneth Taylor
didn't have anybody blocking him, number 16, and
made the tackle. Let's look at Jacob Green, number
77, defensive end for Texas A&M. He's a real strong
football player comes across sheds the block he's
not influenced by that and and his responsibility
is to get the quarterback he comes off that now he
wants to get in on the action on the pitch man and
there's kind of Taylor straightening up Mr. Ben
Collins and a look at Jacob Green from Houston
Cashmere High School six to two hundred forty two
pound junior Ron a new quarterback Kevin Scanlon
is in the ballgame across the middle caught Bobo
first down at the 50 yard line Kevin Scanlon stuck
in on us number fourteen six foot one hundred
eighty five pound junior there's a look at Donnie
Bobo Scanlon has replaced Ron Cal Cagney now Cal
Cagney comes back in and Scanlon having thrown and
completed one pass comes back to the bench that's a
tough thing for a young guy to do come in get one play
and then throw a curl in pattern right on the money
First down 10 at the 50-yard line. Arkansas has had
control since the opening kickoff of the second
half. Flip to the
left side. Right guard, nothing there. As Cowens
gets the handoff, picked up one. Jacob Green in the
area again with Mike Little, number 61, and Cal
Pevito, number 51, who is the middle linebacker.
Go
hogs go. Arkansas National Guard. Nicely
recruiting. Recruiting efforts. They recruit
those hogs up there. Cal Cagney on second down
nine. Farrell. Did he catch it? Did he trap it? He
caught it. It's good at the 32. Down low. Farrell
made the grab. Well they're going to talk about it.
We got it. That's a judgment call. Pure and simple.
That's why they have six officials two on each
sidelines. Somebody get overruled. Here's the
pitch. It's a roll left. It's thrown very low to
this tall receiver and it's one of those
simultaneous things. Evidently the ball hit the
turf as he caught it. He didn't juggle it but
evidently it skipped into his hands. Well Vince
Buckley says no catch third down nine. Initially
they ruled it illegal catch. And then there was a
little bit of a huddle and they said nope. Come back
try it again. That is how the A&M SMU game ended.
Kenna Taylor with an interception that he later
admitted was a trap. Here's Gal Cagney under a
tremendous rush. Overthrown incomplete almost
picked on at the 42 yard line. Mike Little got his
hand on it. and thought he had the interception
that could have been a turnover that the Aggies
were really looking for. That ball was floated
into a dangerous short middle zone. Sophomore
Bruce Leahy from St. Louis Missouri averaged
thirty nine point four this year and has kicked
well this afternoon. And Hatcher Armstrong is
back at 10 for A&M to receive the point. The return
is on for the Aggies and here's the Leahy kick a
great one into the end zone. It'll come out to the 20
yards So Arkansas holds on to the ball for three and
a half minutes, but they do not come up with any
points. A 49-yard kick. A&M has the ball at the
20-yard line when we return. Ohio Stadium is
located in War Memorial Park in Little Rock,
Arkansas. And if Ben Martin and I didn't have a
plane to catch, we might go over and ride the Ferris
wheel. That makes me ill. First down 10. Aggies get
it. On the sideline. hoping that his team can
reestablish dominance and put something
offensively together here. Mike Mosley, the
quarterback. David Brothers set a fullback. Play
action. Mosley will throw on first down. Into
double coverage. Intercepted for 50-yard line.
Coming to the right side, it's Vaughn Lusby. Lusby
at the 35 and out of bounds at the 30 as a flag is
dropped. Lusby has picked off his second
interception of 1978. Got a late hit, I think.
Mosley intercepted on his first throw of the
second half. And we'll look at it again. It's a
no-no for a quarterback to set and under throw a man
deep with double coverage. He should throw it as
far as he can and let the receiver try to get under
it. And then there's no risk of the interception.
He had the coverage pretty well beaten, but it was
under thrown. And so we get the pickoff by a great
defensive back, Vaughn Lusby. And then he's
driven out of bounds with a little bit too much
enthusiasm.
not too thrilled with the way things have gone
here's a face mask violation on the tackle and they
step off yardage down to the 17 yard line second
turnover for Texas A&M they had had a fumble and a
pass intercept that is R.C. Slocum the linebacker
coach once again he and his wife Janet a couple of
outstanding
got a man down also Doug Holmes offensive guard for
Texas A&M injured player trying to get down field
and tackle after the interception
just Tom Wilson would like to have that call back
again you know they're trying to go for broke to
make something happen here in the third quarter
and it just backfired on him and now the hogs really
have something going for them penalties in the
ballgame Aggies have been Well, these are two
football teams that have national championship
hopes just a month ago, and they both ran into a
Houston Cougars team. Arkansas's other losses to
Texas. I had him second loss was to Baylor. After
which, I made the large design of Tom Wilson. Both
clubs have come back with two wins since then. Cal
Cagney left side pitches out. Coward nailed back
at the 19 yard line. Jacob Green was back there. And
Cal Pevito, number 51. And Carl Grulich, number
19.
There's Jacob Green. 6'2", 242 pounds. He has
tackled, not counting that one, 18 tackles for 109
yards in losses this year. That's fantastic
performance. It's second down and 12. Cal Cagney.
And on Jerry Eckwood to the 10, to the 8. close to the
first and 10 the senior from Brinkley Arkansas
over right guard a block from Kalenda and Stewart
on the right side as Kenneth Taylor and Carl
Gerlich make the tackle that's a play the Lou Holtz
calls his power dive it's a base block everybody
fires out in a zone straight ahead and in the back
just finds that little daylight to the outside
third down and one at the eight thirteen seven
the offensive
line of scrimmage if the play stands Arkansas has a
first and
goal
Well, they get half the distance here, so they have
the option there. Vince Buckley explaining. Ron
Caltagni audibilized at the line of scrimmage
when he saw that nine-man front and broke up the
cadence, so the Aggies were a little too nervous.
They will take the penalty, get an additional yard
out of it on a half-distance call. So with his first
down goal, Arkansas at the A&M four-yard line with
10.03 to go third quarter. And here come the hogs.
Robert Carroll breaks wide left. Roland Sayles,
number 21, is in the offensive backfield with
Jerry Eckwood.
Sayles has it to the three. They're going over
Kalenda and Stewart on that right side, Ben.
That's the coaching staff at Arkansas is very high
on Greg Kalenda and Stewart. They just can fire out
there. They're big kids. And the backs are used to
running right behind them and And they really fire
out along that line of scrimmage. George Stewart,
number 74, and Greg Kalenda, number 73. Stewart is
out now, and Jerry Sullivan has come in in his spot
at right guard. Wearing number 65. It's second
down goal at the
three-yard line. Maybe changing at the line. Cal
Cagney, keeper, touchdown! Flag is down also.
Flag
on
the far side. Offside. A&M. Refused. Six points.
Cal Fagney's second touchdown of the day. He's
something else. So the Hogs have extended their
lead to 19-7. And Ish Ordonez will try and make it
27. A 17-yard drive following the pass
interception set up by Vaughn Musby. So the
Razorbacks have had to travel 27 and 17 for their
two touchdowns this afternoon. They're gone for
two. And they try to get back on the money with that
21 points. Make it 21-7. And Ordonez is on the
bench. And here come the Razorbacks with a
two-point effort.
As
a good colleague they flooded his own to the right.
On the touchdown Cal Cagney spotted a hole in the
defense and he audibillized right here near the
goal line checked to his own number came to the
right and just ducked right in where that hole was.
It was a misalignment by the Aggies on defense and
he took advantage of it. You take a look at it from
the ground level he sees the hole. Now he cuts right
back inside but no one is there. And then he drives
inside. Razorbacks have extended their lead.
They have a 12 point ball now. Nineteen seven
kickoff forthcoming.
Razorbacks tried to go for two bandit work. Well
they set it up on the left hash and they loaded up on
the right. So with Cal Cagney had a lot of running
room. He had a man open in the end zone. He just
couldn't hang on because there was a little
trouble in the throwing lane. Too bad. It's almost
perfect execution of a two pointer. Fish or
Donna's is on the kickoff as Arkansas has a
nineteen seven lead now. Temple a day and Leandro
Brown on the deep man for Texas A&M. It's a little
dangerous
to get Tom Wilson heart failure. He just misjudged
that ball. You know the side wheelers when they
kick that ball down there comes down there like a
helicopter kind of slithers and goes in every
direction. He just mishandled it. We have played
just about six minutes in the third quarter. This
will be A&M's second offensive play of this half.
Curtis Dickey and David Brothers split back. They
are running split back offense for the first time
this year. Dickey left guard, not much there.
Larry Jackson, number 66. Would you believe the
veer? They're running the veer just like the hogs
do. That is not David Bandy, it's Larry Jackson,
number 66. For Arkansas. It's
second down. Doug T. comes wide to the left. This
time A&M will go for the high formation. Mosley is
four out of seven for the day. Hands it off Dickey.
Look at that sprinter speed as he gets out to the 37.
Marty Mitchum made the tackle. Jimmy Walker is so
quick on that defensive left side of the hogs line.
They're going to stay away from him. He takes the
outside and then they come off to the left side with
kind of a sprint draw and Curtis Dickey cuts back
and there he goes
Curtis Dickey up to the forty five yard line
William Hampton with the tackle
we got some speculation here Ben that's
interesting about the signal stealing going on
down in the field well it happens I'll tell you if
you wigwag signals in you you better be like Casey
Stengel was and kind of flip a foolish one in there
once in a while Well, there's some thought down on
the bench that the Arkansas coaching staff is
reading the signals. Reading the signals that Tom
Wilson and his staff are wigwagging into the
offensive level and relaying them to their
defense. Well, I tell you, every staff tries it.
Whether they're being successful or not remains
to be seen. First down, Ted, at the 46-yard line.
And off to the fullback, David Brothers from
Seguin, Texas. Gets about six up for the 47. of
Arkansas. David Brothers, 163 yard effort
against Rice a couple of weeks ago. That was Cody
Rise at number 70. One of the great offensive
linemen in the Southwest Conference in the
Arkansas defense. A&M moving the ball now. Second
down and three. They pray on 19-7 with 7.44 to go
third quarter. Mosley, the lead option to the
right side. Comes back left. He'll be short of the
first down by a couple. Jimmy Walker, number 75,
made the stop.
Once
in a while Jimmy Walker moves over and lines up as a
nose guard because he's really built in his
aptitudes or as a nose guard he's short and strong
and very quick and very tough to block.